Voice 1: We think that there could be a few things that’s causing your abdominal pain.

Voice 2: ok

Voice 1: So it’s probably partially caused by your acid reflux, which tends to cause pain in the chest area. And drinking lots of alcohol could make it easier for that to happen.

Voice 2: Ah I see.

Voice 1: for that, we are giving you a medication, called pantoprazole. It basically helps your stomach produce less acid. So that’ll help your symptoms.

Voice 2: ok, thank you.

Voice 1: Another contributor to your abdominal pain is that, just like what they told you last time you were in the hospital, your liver is inflamed. Based on the pattern of your liver labs, we think that is pretty consistent with liver injury caused by lots of alcohol drinking as well.

Voice 2: Ah, is there anything that can be done about that?

Voice 1: So, because it is not at a very advanced stage, generally it’ll get better by itself, if you stop drinking.

Voice 2: oh I see.

Voice 1: Is that something you’ve thought about, stopping or slowing down drinking?

Voice 2: Yes I have. But I just never succeeded, I also went back to it. But now that I know it can cause me liver issues, I definitely will.

Voice 1: yeah, that’d be a very important thing to do. It’s luck that the liver injury it had caused for you is reversible, but if you keep on drinking, you could also develop cirrhosis of the liver, which would only be treated with a transplant, which, as you know, is hard to get, or be treated with steroids, whose efficacy is kind of a hit or miss, it only has a less than 50% rate of improving people’s symptoms.

Voice 2: Ok yes, I definitely want it to not get to that. I definitely want to stop now.

Voice 1: Ok, yeah that’d be really good. Is there any barrier you foresee that would make it hard for you to stop drinking?

Voice 2: No, I can stop.

Voice 1: Ok, there are medications that can possibly help you with reducing craving, on top of your determination and will to quit, which you know is the most important, are you interested in trying a medication to help with craving?

Voice 2: yes, that’d be really good.

Voice 1: ok, have you heard of a medication called naltrexone?

Voice 2: no.

Voice 1: it is a medication you can take once a day, or on days that you feel like you might have cravings. It is good to start off by taking it once a day. We can start you on this medication here, and we can also discharge you home with some of it. Make sure that you let your primary care doctor know also, that you are taking this medication, so that they can keep on giving you refills.

Voice 2: ok thank you.

Voice 1: The pantoprazole should help with your pain a lot. If you still have lots of pain after trying that, you can also use a small amount of oxycodone. You can ask the nurse for it once every 6 hours.

Voice 2: ok, thank you.

Voice 1: I also want to discuss some other findings from your labs. Your lipids in your blood is also high, and your blood pressure has been high since you came here.

Voice 2: oh, what can I do about that?

Voice 1: So there are lifestyle modifications, and there are medications that help with that. Lifestyle changes would be like eating healthy

Voice 2: oh yeah, I def don’t eat healthy.

Voice 1: what do you typically eat?

Voice 2: I eat lot of hamburgers and tacos.

Voice 1: Oh yeah, reducing those would definitely help with your blood pressure and lipids. Try eating more fruits and vegetables, and when you cook meat, try to use less oil, and try to eat lean meat, like chicken and fish. And try to eat things that have less salt in them, that’d be very helpful for your blood pressure. And exercises can help too. Do you usually exercise or walk around a lot at all?

Voice 2: no, not really.

Voice 1: ok, generally it is recommended that 30 minutes of exercise a day for like 5 days of the week can make a big difference. And it can be even things like fast walking, or other more intense exercises. But really anything is better than nothing, and generally the more the better.

Voice 2: ok I will try to do that.

Voice 1: yeah, that’d be really good. Although, because your blood pressure and your blood lipids are pretty high, we do think it is necessary to medications for those, while you try to adopt these healthier lifestyle changes.

Voice 2: yes, yes.

Voice 1: So for your high blood pressure, we started you on a medication called losartan. For your lipids, we generally give patients a medication called statin. However, because it interacts with the liver, we are gonna wait till your liver inflammation gets a bit better. So we’ll probably start it later while you are here, or just have your PCP start it for you.

Voice 2: ok.

Voice 1: it is important that you follow up with a PCP. To manage these medications, and to regularly check your lab values, like your lipid, your blood pressure, and labs for your liver, to make sure that the medications are working well and all your levels are good.

Voice 2: ok

Voice 1: Lastly, for your chest pain, we think that partially it is from the acid reflux, but we did see that your heart was kind of strained based on the electrical conduction study and the labs we did on your heart.

Voice 2: ok

Voice 1: it is not like a heart attack, but your heart was laboring a lot and under stress.

Voice 2: What could have caused that?

Voice 1: lots of things that cause stress to the body can cause that.

Voice 2: oh yes, I have been very stressed.

Voice 1: Yes, mental stress can definitely be a contributor, we think for you, it was most likely due to dehydration, and the stress that your high blood pressure was causing for your heart.

Voice 2: ok

Voice 1: so it’s important that you drink a lot of water, that’d be helpful for relieving your alcohol withdrawal as well. And again, it very important that you take your blood pressure medication, and follow up with your PCP on it.

Voice 2: ok I will.

Voice 1: the heart doctors also want to further evaluate your heart by doing a stress test. That’d basically require you to run a treadmill, and they’ll monitor your heart while you do that. We think we will do that tomorrow. Are you ok with that?

Voice 2: yes, mhm.

Voice 1: Ok, I know that’s a lot that we talked about, do you have any questions?

Voice 2: humm, when will I go home?

Voice 1: Um, not today but probably soon. Tomorrow we will do the stress test for your heart. And we just want to watch and make sure that you are not in very bad alcohol withdrawal, and maybe wait for the labs for your liver to drop down a little bit.